README.md, before:

# Routing - a simple routes helper. 

> No more hard-coded URI defining like : `fetch('http://example.com/api/persons/' + id).then(....)`. This library has no external deps.

## Getting started

### Install

`npm install --save @meligys/routing`

### Examples

#### Without any dependencies


```
var Routing = require('@meligys/routing');

const routes = {
    host: "http://google.com",

    persons: {
        path: '/persons',

        findAll: {
            host: 'http://bing.com',
            path: "/list",
        },
        findById: {
            path: "/{id}",
        }
    }
}

let options = {
    routes
};

routing = new Routing(options);

console.log(routing.generate('persons.findAll'));
console.log(routing.generate('persons.findById', {'id': 1}));
```

> You can also externalize the routes file 


First, create a file with routes `routes.js` : 

```

module.exports = {
    host: "http://google.com",

    persons: {
        path: '/persons',

        findAll: {
            host: 'http://bing.com',
            path: "/list",
        },
        findById: {
            path: "/{id}",
        },
        findByParam: {
            path: "?myparam={myparam}&another={anotherParam}"
        }
    }
}

```

Then, in the file you are using the router: 

```
var Routing = require('@meligys/routing');

const routes = require('path/to/routes.js')

let options = {
    routes
};

routing = new Routing(options);

console.log(routing.generate('persons.findAll'));
console.log(routing.generate('persons.findById', {'id': 1}));
```

#### With the dependency config (optional)

You may have different environments, so you can have different hosts for each environment. 

> The following code is not routing specific, it's just a solution to get the routes for the right environment. For more infos about config, please refer to [https://github.com/lorenwest/node-config](https://github.com/lorenwest/node-config)

Install config: `npm install --save config`

```
var config = require('config');

var routesPath = config.get('routesPath');

const routes = require(routesPath)

let options = {
    routes
};

routing = new Routing(options);

console.log(routing.generate('persons.findAll'));
console.log(routing.generate('persons.findById', {'id': 1}));

```

## Contribution

Feel free to contribute, add issues and :star: the repository :sparkler:

Commit message:

updated README with use of tester file

README.md, after:

# Routing - a simple routes helper.

> No more hard-coded URI defining like : `fetch('http://example.com/api/persons/' + id).then(....)`. This library has no external deps.

## Getting started

### Install

`npm install --save @meligys/routing`

### Examples

#### Without any dependencies


```
var Routing = require('@meligys/routing');

const routes = {
    host: "http://google.com",

    persons: {
        path: '/persons',

        findAll: {
            host: 'http://bing.com',
            path: "/list",
        },
        findById: {
            path: "/{id}",
        }
    }
}

let options = {
    routes
};

routing = new Routing(options);

console.log(routing.generate('persons.findAll'));
console.log(routing.generate('persons.findById', {'id': 1}));
```

> You can also externalize the routes file


First, create a file with routes `routes.js` :

```

module.exports = {
    host: "http://google.com",

    persons: {
        path: '/persons',

        findAll: {
            host: 'http://bing.com',
            path: "/list",
        },
        findById: {
            path: "/{id}",
        },
        findByParam: {
            path: "?myparam={myparam}&another={anotherParam}"
        }
    }
}

```

Then, in the file you are using the router:

```
var Routing = require('@meligys/routing');

const routes = require('path/to/routes.js')

let options = {
    routes
};

routing = new Routing(options);

console.log(routing.generate('persons.findAll'));
console.log(routing.generate('persons.findById', {'id': 1}));
```

#### Testing your config file

You can test your `routes.js` file by using `tester.js` in the lib folder.
For example :
```
cd lib
node tester.js ../examples/routes.js
```

#### With the dependency config (optional)

You may have different environments, so you can have different hosts for each environment.

> The following code is not routing specific, it's just a solution to get the routes for the right environment. For more infos about config, please refer to [https://github.com/lorenwest/node-config](https://github.com/lorenwest/node-config)

Install config: `npm install --save config`

```
var config = require('config');

var routesPath = config.get('routesPath');

const routes = require(routesPath)

let options = {
    routes
};

routing = new Routing(options);

console.log(routing.generate('persons.findAll'));
console.log(routing.generate('persons.findById', {'id': 1}));

```

## Contribution

Feel free to contribute, add issues and :star: the repository :sparkler:
